Universal design, Inclusive design, and equity-focused design:

It's very important to consider needs on neurodivergent and differently abled folks.

Universal design - the process of creating one product for the most number of users (one size fits all approach). Obviously this can make products less effective, because the targeted user range is so wide, and ended up excluding a lot of users.

Inclusive design - focuses on making design choices that take into account personal identifiers (race, gender, neuro, ability). Solve for one, extend to many

Accessibility - the design of products, environments, or services to account for those of differing physical or cognitive abilities

Equity-focused design - designed for groups that have been historically left out or marginalized. Equity focuses on fair outcomes, not people receiving the same things. Focus on fairness and accessibility.

Job applications and census forms are a good example of the importance of equity focused design. Why are you asking certain questions? Do you require that info? When you make people feel included, you get more accurate data (plus it's ethical).

Tech example - when VAs were initially trained, were only trained using male, English speaking voices, and didn't understand accented speakers and women (or folks with higher pitched voices).

This is especially important when it comes to account profiles, and designing avatars. 


User-centered Design:
"There is no substitute for personally watching and listening to real people." - Larry Page

User-centered Design has 4 steps 

Understand - how does the user experience similar products? 

Specify - what are the end user's needs? What problem is the most important to solve?

Design - create solutions to those problems

Evaluate - how well did you solve the user's problems? 

These steps can be fluid, and can go back and forth 

Assistive Technology:
AT - any product/equipment/systems that enhance learning, working, living for people with disabilities 

There are people who don't identify as disabled who used AT.

Color modification:
high contrast mode 

Voice control:
Can serve as an alternative to keyboard or mouse. A switch is an AT device that replaces the need for keyboard or mouse. Can allow users to control technology without the traditional controls (keyboard, mouse).

Screen Readers:
translate visual UI into audio UI

Alt Text: 
translate visual UI into a text UI
